Objective:- Assignments will help trainees to understand the basics of unix command and how to explore and use it.

DO NOT copy paste commands from internet, you can take help of the Unix in-built command manual.

Be Honest to yourself!

Important command and option to learn unix commands:-
man Command
Example:-
man ls

--help Option
Example:-
ls --help

NOTE:- Always use "man" command before using any unix commands and read about it and its options and how to use it.

Assignments:- (NOTE: The $ symbol used often can also be ignored)

List the contents of a directory and their attributes 
(ls -l,ls,ls -a,ls -r,ls -t,ls -lh)-> ls is used for listing the names directories of files.

Long list the content with file, directory ownership, permissions,sizes, etc… 
(ls -l)

Display the size of the file in human readable format 
(ls -lh)

Show all files and folders including hidden one 
(ls -a)

list directories recursively 
(ls -r)

Sort the files by size with largest at the top 
(ls -S)

Sort the files by last time modified displaying the newest first. 
(ls -t)

Diplay the location of a program/command, where it is installed. 
(echo $path)

Which command is used to switch directory from one to another 
(cd known as changeDirectory)

List all the environment variables set for the current shell environment 
(env)

Did you notice something in the output of "env" command? 
(Username,os,processor level etc)

Which command is used to print the text or any variables value in the Console/Terminal? 
(echo) "var value=echo and env var=env"

Print the value of the env variable "PATH" on the console 
(echo %PATH%)

Is linux a case-sensitive operating system? 
(Yes but not windows)

Is, "Ls" same as "ls"? 
(yes)

Display your currently logged in user 
($w stands for who)

how do you change the currrently logged in user to another user? 
($su - username)

Which command is used to leave a shell environment that you are currently logged in to? 
($exit)

How do you reboot the system? 
($sudo reboot)

How do you shutdown the system? 
($shutdown -h now) or to cancel a shutdown, shutdown -c

Display all the major running processes in the system 
($ps aux)

Understand the output of command used in above question of displaying processes, explain the meaning of each column and what data it displays?
(After typing ps aux type sudo ps -a. Now we'll get the op like Rakesh 43126  0.0  0.0 13160 8452  -  S    10:59   0:00.03 vim
	where Rakesh-USername, 43126-PID(UNIX ProcessID), 10:59- process start time and vim- Actual process)

Display the name of the system kernel 
(uname -s)

display the kernel release number 
(uname -r)

display the machine type of the current kernel 
(uname -m)

Display the name of the operating system that the kernel is running on 
(uname -o)

Display all info that uname command can show. 
(uname -a)

Display the name of directory that you are currently pointing to 
(pwd)

change the current directory to another directory that you have in your system. 
(cd/)

Go up one directory
(cd ..)

Return to last directory 
(cd -)

change the current directory to home(logged in user's) directory 
(cd or cd ~username)

How to check all the command used from the prompt (Command History) 
(history)

In which file the history of commands are stored in? 
(~/.bash_history file)

How many lines of history does the system keep and from where you can change it? 
(1k and ?)

(x)How can you modify bash's history behaviour 
(It can be modified from ~/.bash_history file)

Display all the commands entered so far, now, try to run a particular command from the history list without typing that command. 
(history | more and then type history no preceeded by !, e.g !4)

NOTE:- TAB key is your friend when it comes to command completion and having long file and directory names autocompleted at the bash prompt for you. JUST BE LAZY AND USE TAB KEY FOR AUTO COMPLETION ;-)

What are the different types of shell and where are they used and how do we use them? 
(Bourne Shell-sh, GNU Bourne Again Shell-bash, C shell-csh, Koen Shell-ksh)

What is the difference between login shell and non-login shell? 
(Log into shell and if asked for username and password then it's login shell. If allows to use straight away then non login)

How do we start login shell and non-login shell? 
(login:prepended with a - e.g -bash etc. Non login: Doesn't use login)

What happens when you start a login shell (which files are read and used and Why)?
(/etc/profile files read first because these files are used to set the environmental items)

What happens when you start a non-login shell (Which files are read and used and Why)?
(~/.bashrc)

What are Shell Configuration Files, why do we need it? 
(Shell config files are executed automatically while login or out from shell. /etc/profile holds environmental items hence we need it)

Explain the Order of file usage from the system/user's home directory when user logs in to the System. 
(First /etc/profile then  ~/. bash_profile , ~/. bash_login , and ~/.)

What are Shell Variables, list major shell variables and what do they represent? 
(set-lists all env variables,unset-removes var,PS1-cmd prompt appearance governed by env var called PS1 etc)

How we see all our env variables? 
(env or printenv)

How we see all env variables in alphabical order? 
(env | sort)

What Format does the env var and its values are stored? 
(ascending order)

How do you create your own varible? 
(Using = symbol e.g myvar=hello)

How do you start a new bash shell? 
(by typing bash in the address bar of windows)

Difference between Local/Shell variables to Global Variable? 
(Local var declared inside function and starts and ends along with function. Global var declared outside and starts and ends along with program)

Making a variable accessible from other the shell in the system. 
(Keep the variable in /etc/environment)

Show the real life use case of exporting a variable 
(export -p)

Convert the above script file into a command, The file should run with "myappp" instead of "myapp.sh" (?)

What is Globbing? Explain in depth with examples? 
(mv *.txt, here * is a wildcard standing for "any string of characters" and *.txt is a glob pattern). So globbing means wild card with file pattern)

List all entries with extension ".sh" 
(find . -name "*.sh" -print)

List all entries with numbers in it. (?)

List all entries that starts with a character and ends with a number 
(grep '^a.*[0-9]$' newfile 
The command to match a regex: .......use grep
To match only the regex written, ........use -o
To match the start of a line, .................use ^: ^\[
To match any characters in between, .use .: .*
To match the end of a line, ...................use $: apal$
A file that contains what you want to match.: file.txt)

List all entries that name length more than 5 characters 
(ls -d /tmp/????? where tmp is any file)

Write few(minimum 3) unique examples that shows, how a particular problem is solved using Quoting. 
(If we have any wild card entry which hinders in printing the value we use quoting. Use quoting prior to the wild card. e.g: echo Hello; Word will through error with op Hello but by using quoting \, echo Hello\; Word op Hello; Word. Using $, echo "I have \$1200" op I have $1200)

(x) How do you find a particular files/directories based on a particular search criteria? 
HINT:- look for commands -> locate, find and whereis
(Finding file by name, find -name "query")

Write major difference between locate, find and whereis?
			
(find command searches the file within the PATH
	whereis command searches the file outside the PATH
	locate searches files by filename but does not search the directory)

How Globbing is different from locate, find and whereis? 
(Globbing is the combination of wildcard and file type and shows multiple files, where others search for the particular file)

Explain the Linux File System. 
(Collection of files in a different disk)

Explain absolute and Relative Paths 
(Absolute: Specifying location of file. Relative: Present working directory)

What are the different ways of creating a File in linux System? Write an example of each and the difference between them.
Touch command.(sudo touch touch.txt)
Cat command.(cat > cat.txt)
Echo command.(echo "This file has been created with echo command" > echo.txt)
Printf command.(printf "This file has been created with printf command" > printf.txt)
Nano text editor.(nano nano.txt)
Vi text editor.(vi vi.txt)
Vim text editor.(vim vim.txt)

In how many ways we can delete the files from linux system? write an example of each and teh difference between them.
(unlink filename or rm filename)

Archiving files using linux command, write a command to archive set of files from linux commands.
(tar)

Extract the archived files from the above step.
Common tar archives: tar -xf archive. tar.
Gzip tar archive: tar -xzf archive. tgz.
Bzip tar archive: tar -xjf archive. tbz.